2588 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

Robust Depth-Based Person Re-Identification
Ancong Wu, Wei-Shi Zheng, and Jian-Huang Lai

Abstract— Person re-identification (re-id) aims to match people
across non-overlapping camera views. So far the RGB-based
appearance is widely used in most existing works. However, when
people appeared in extreme illumination or changed clothes, the
RGB appearance-based re-id methods tended to fail. To overcome
this problem, we propose to exploit depth information to provide
more invariant body shape and skeleton information regardless
of illumination and color change. More specifically, we exploit
depth voxel covariance descriptor and further propose a locally
rotation invariant depth shape descriptor called Eigen-depth
feature to describe pedestrian body shape. We prove that the
distance between any two covariance matrices on the Riemannian
manifold is equivalent to the Euclidean distance between the
corresponding Eigen-depth features. Furthermore, we propose
a kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme to estimate Eigen-
depth feature implicitly from RGB image when depth information
is not available. We find that combining the estimated depth
features with RGB-based appearance features can sometimes
help to better reduce visual ambiguities of appearance features
caused by illumination and similar clothes. The effectiveness of
our models was validated on publicly available depth pedestrian
datasets as compared to related methods for re-id.

Index Terms— Person re-identification, depth information. Fig. 1. Illustration of change of color histograms and invariance of depth and
skeletons. From left to right, the first column shows RGB images, the second
column shows depth images (shown by pseudo-color images) and skeletons,

I. INTRODUCTION and the remaining columns show histograms of R, G, B channels, respectively.
(a) Clothing change. (b) Illumination change.

THE task of person re-identification (re-id) is to match
people in a distributed multi-camera surveillance system

at different time and locations, with wide applications to color and textures are important appearance cues used to
forensic search, multi-camera tracking and access control, etc. match. It is apparent that lighting will significantly affect
In most short-term applications, low-level features such as the performance of these low-level features. In more extreme

cases, when lighting condition changes greatly (e.g., with
Manuscript received May 18, 2016; revised September 28, 2016 and v.s. without lighting), color information of clothes becomes

December 15, 2016; accepted February 12, 2017. Date of publication
February 24, 2017; date of current version April 11, 2017. This work was unreachable. Moreover, when people change clothes, color and
supported in part by National Natural Science Foundation of China under textures become unreliable. For example, Figure 1 shows how
Grant 61522115, Grant 61573387, Grant 61661130157, and Grant 61628212, color histograms change when people change clothes or appear
the RS-Newton Advanced Fellowship (NA150459), in part by the Guang-
dong Natural Science Funds for Distinguished Young Scholar under Grant in extreme illumination. In these cases, most existing re-id
S2013050014265, in part by the Guangdong Science and Technology Planning systems are not workable, since they are RGB-based.
Project under Grant 2016A010102012, and in part by Guangdong Program for In comparison to RGB information, depth information can
Support of Top-notch Young Professionals under Grant 2014TQ01X779. The
associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and approving it maintain more invariant even when suffering from clothing
for publication was Prof. Wen Gao. (Corresponding author: Wei-Shi Zheng.) change and extreme illumination. As shown in Figure 1, shape

A. Wu is with the School of Electronics and Information Technology, and skeleton of body are likely more invariant under extreme
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510275, China; and he is also with
the Collaborative Innovation Center of High Performance Computing, lighting and clothing change. Nowadays, extracting depth
National University of Defense Technology, Changsha 410073, China (e-mail: and skeleton information with depth cameras (e.g., Microsoft
wuancong@mail2.sysu.edu.cn). Kinect) is not difficult in an indoor environment. Kinect sensor

W.-S. Zheng is with the School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou, China, and also with the Key Laboratory of Machine obtains depth value (distance to the camera) of each pixel by
Intelligence and Advanced Computing, Sun Yat-sen University, Ministry of infrared, regardless of object color and illumination in indoor
Education, China. (e-mail: wszheng@ieee.org). applications. With depth information, the life-size point cloud

J.-H. Lai is with the School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou, China, and also with the Guangdong Province Key and skeleton of a person can be extracted, providing shape and
Laboratory of Information Security, Guang Zhou 510275, China (e-mail: physical information of his/her body. Moreover, with depth
stsljh@mail.sysu.edu.cn). value of each pixel, pedestrians can be more easily segmented

Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org. from background, so that background influence can be largely

Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIP.2017.2675201 eliminated. Hence, using depth information could overcome
1057-7149 © 2017 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.

See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2589

some difficulties in RGB appearance-based methods, such as
color change, illumination change and background clutters.

Although there are some advantages for depth-based
re-identification as compared to the RGB appearance-based
methods, challenges and limitations also come along with
depth information. Firstly, the depth images captured by
depth device change significantly when a person’s viewpoint
changes. Secondly, noises from devices exist in the captured
depth images. These two aspects will seriously affect the
use of depth information for person re-identification. So
far, a few methods [1]–[4] have been developed to exploit
depth information for person re-identification, but the above
two problems are still not well solved in existing methods.
[1] uses only skeletons to extract feature. In [2], [3], besides
using skeleton to extract physical information, applying point
clouds converted from depth images for 3D body shape
matching is also considered, but alignment errors and noises
of point clouds are the problems remained unsolved. In [4],
a deep model is applied to classify the person point cloud Fig. 2. Pipeline of our depth-based re-identification feature extraction.
sequences, in which feature extraction and classification are In the last step, depth shape descriptor and skeleton-based feature are
jointly modeled and body shape is not explicitly described. combined. When the viewpoint variation of pedestrians is slight, depth voxel

Therefore, body shape description is still an important biomet- covariance descriptor (DVCov) is exploited as depth shape descriptor; when
the viewpoint variation is large, Eigen-depth (ED) is exploited.

ric cue which needs further study for person re-identification.
In this work, we aim to design a depth shape descriptor an auxiliary RGB-D dataset is employed to learn the non-

which is locally invariant to rotation1 and insensitive to noise. linear transformation between RGB-based appearance feature
We propose two depth shape descriptors: depth voxel covari- and depth feature. When depth device is not ready/available,
ance descriptor and Eigen-depth feature. Eigen-depth feature the depth feature is estimated from RGB image and used
is based on depth voxel covariance descriptor and locally to augment the RGB-based appearance feature. The experi-
rotation invariant. Then we combine depth shape descriptor ment results show that this makes extra improvement on the
with skeleton-based feature to form complete depth represen- re-identification performance for top-ranked matching.
tation of body shape and physical information. The pipeline We tested our methods on three publicly available datasets,
of constructing a descriptor for our depth-based person re- PAVIS [1], BIWI RGBD-ID [2] and IAS-Lab RGBD-ID [3].
id method is illustrated in Figure 2. Our method takes the The results show the effectiveness of our depth-based approach
following steps: (1) segmentation and computation of point for overcoming change of clothes and extreme illumination
cloud and normals of torso and head; (2) extracting depth voxel condition. When clothes are completely different between
covariance descriptor and locally rotation invariant Eigen- gallery and probe, RGB appearance-based methods fail while
depth feature; (3) enriching body depth shape descriptor by our depth-based method is effective. Our approach out-
additionally combining skeleton-based feature. In the second performs other existing depth-based re-identification meth-
step, the Eigen-depth feature is more suitable due to its ods including skeleton-based methods, PCM, combination
stability against local rotation of body when the viewpoint of them [3] and recurrent attention model [4]. Compared
of a person varies obviously, while the depth voxel covariance to other favorable rotation invariant depth shape descrip-
descriptor will be more effective because of rich information it tors, our descriptor also outperforms RIFT2M [5] and Fehr’s
contains when the viewpoint change of a person is slight. In the descriptor [6].
third step, the skeleton-based feature can be complementary In summary, the contributions of our work are: (1) proposing
to the depth shape descriptor extracted from step (2), so more depth voxel covariance descriptor and Eigen-depth feature for
robust matching can be achieved. depth-based re-identification and proving the local rotation

In addition, in real-world applications, most of the deployed invariance of Eigen-depth feature in theory; (2) forming a
cameras in existing surveillance systems cannot capture depth depth re-id recognition framework by unifying depth shape
information, so how to make depth-based method work in descriptor and skeleton-based feature for a complete repre-
existing system is also a challenge, while existing depth-based sentation; (3) proposing a kernelized implicit feature transfer
and RGB-D-based methods assume depth information is avail- scheme to estimate the Eigen-depth feature from RGB images
able. Towards overcoming this limitation, we learn the relation implicitly when depth device is not available.
between depth features and RGB-based appearance features by
a kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme. For this purpose, II. RELATED WORK

1 In this section, we present an overview of related image-
Local rotation invariance means that the feature of a body part is invariant

when viewpoint change of pedestrian will not make that body part become based re-id technologies in three aspects: (1) RGB appearance-
invisible due to self-occlusion. based re-id, (2) depth-based re-id, and (3) RGB-D re-id.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2590 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

Currently, most person re-identification approaches are based re-identification problem under the setting when there is no
on 2D RGB-based appearance features. overlap on people between training and testing.

Compared to existing depth-based re-identification frame-
A. RGB Appearance-Based Person Re-Identification works, the main difference of our work is that we propose

depth voxel covariance descriptor and Eigen-depth feature
Most existing works rely on RGB-based appearance fea-

to describe body shape. Eigen-depth feature is a covariance-
tures. Among them, color is most frequently used and it is

based feature, and it is locally rotation invariant and does not
often encoded into histograms [7]–[12]. Besides, texture-based

require alignment of point clouds. The Eigen-depth feature
features are also employed, including HOG-like signature [13],

can be viewed as a depth shape descriptor and thus can
Gabor feature [11], [14], graph model [15], differential

remove the ambiguity of using only anthropometric mea-
filters [11], [14] and Haar-like representations [16]. Many

surement of skeletons in the previous depth modeling for
other hand-crafted features such as covariance descriptor [17],

re-identification. Compared to direct utilization of point cloud
Fisher vector [18], spatial co-occurrence representation [19],

in PCM [2], it deals with noises of non-rigid human body
custom pictorial structure [20] and SARC3D [21] were

better.
also developed for achieving more reliable representations.

We also discuss some related depth shape descriptors,
Recently, feature learning methods have been more focused

including the covariance descriptor in [65], RIFT2M [5] and
on, such as salience learning [22], mirror representation [23],

Fehr’s covariance descriptor [6], which were not applied for
salient color names [24], reference descriptor [25], context-

person re-identification. Compared to the covariance descrip-
based feature [26], deep features [27]–[32], dictionary

tor in [65], Eigen-depth feature is locally rotation invari-
learning [33]–[35] and attribute learning [36]–[38]. However,

ant. Compared to rotation invariant descriptors RIFT2M [5]
in the situations of clothing change or extreme illumination,

and Fehr’s covariance descriptor [6], Eigen-depth feature is
these RGB-based appearance features tend to fail.

densely extracted rather than using interest points, so that
Besides feature representation, a large amount of metric/

it contains richer information of body shape. Moreover, its
subspace models [11], [12], [14], [39]–[56], have been devel-

rotation invariance is achieved in eigen-analysis level, so
oped to achieve more reliable matching, such as LMNN [39],

alignment of point cloud is not needed and more compact
RankSVM [14], RDC [41], PCCA [42], KISSME [40],

representation can be obtained by eigen-analysis.
LFDA [43], CVDCA [50], CRAFT [51], MLAPG [52],
TDL [55] and DNS [56]. Some other methods have also C. RGB-D Person Re-Identification
been proposed for this purpose, e.g., re-ranking [57], [58]

Since RGB and depth information can be obtained simul-
and correspondence structure [59]. Unsupervised learning

taneously when using Kinect, some re-identification methods
models [60], [61] have also been developed for person re-

have been developed to combine depth information and RGB
identification. However, they cannot solve the illumination and

appearance cues in order to extract more discriminative feature
clothing change problems. Compared to RGB-based appear-

representation. Pala et al. [66] improved accuracy of clothing
ance features, depth information is a solution to this problem,

appearance descriptors by fusing them with anthropometric
because it is independent of color and maintains more invariant

measures extracted from depth data. Mogelmose et al. [67]
for a longer period of time.

presented a tri-modal method to combine RGB, depth and
thermal features. Mogelmose et al. [68] combined color his-

B. Depth-Based Person Re-Identification togram and height feature extracted from depth information.
So far, only a few depth-based re-identification methods John et al. [69] combined RGB-Height histogram and gait fea-

based on depth image, point cloud and anthropometric mea- ture of depth information. Satta et al. [70] exploited skeleton to
surement [1]–[4], [62]–[64] have been developed. To some segment human body and extracted color feature. In [71], each
extent, depth-based methods can solve the problems of chang- color pixel was assigned to the nearest bone in the skeleton,
ing clothes and extreme illumination. Barbosa et al. exploited and color histograms were computed for each region. In [72],
skeleton-based feature [1] based on anthropometric measure- the proposed feature bodyprint exploited the mean RGB values
ment of distances between joints and geodesic distances on of regions in different heights. In [73], the descriptor was
body surface. Munaro et al. built a point cloud model for based on a 3D cylindrical grid that unified color variations
each person as gallery by fusing a set of point clouds from together with angle and height. Takac et al. [74] exploited
different views and then applied Point Cloud Matching (PCM) color histograms of upper body and lower body separately.
to compute the distance between samples [2]. In [3], [62], Xu et al. [75] proposed a distance metric using RGB-D data
Munaro et al. combined PCM and skeleton-based feature to improve RGB-based person re-identification.
modified based on Barbosa et al.’s work [1]. These methods As reported in these works, the combination of RGB and
needed to align the point clouds, and no depth shape descriptor depth is effective. They all assume that depth information is
was applied for describing body shape. Haque et al. proposed available along with RGB images. In our work, we propose to
a recurrent attention model [4] for depth-video-based person learn the relation between RGB and depth by a kernelized
identification, in which 3D RAM model was for still 3D point implicit feature transfer scheme, which enables estimation
clouds and 4D RAM model was for 3D point cloud sequences. of depth features from RGB features so as to improve the
However, among the above depth-based frameworks, PCM re-identification performance even though the deployed
and Haque’s method were not suitable for solving person cameras are not ready for capturing depth information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2591

TABLE I For a point x, k nearest neighbourhoods of x are found, and
TERMS AND DEFINITIONS FOR SECTION III then the direction on which data is least scattered is computed

by PCA [78] as the unit normal vector direction (nx , ny, nz).
For each point (x, y, z) (unit: mm), a feature vector F(x , y, z)
is composed of the coordinate and the unit normal vector

F(x, y, z) = [x , y, z, nx , ny, nz ]T . (1)

B. Depth Voxel Covariance Descriptor
To depict the variation of local feature vectors and alleviate

noises, we exploit two types of covariance matrices, namely
within-voxel covariance and between-voxel covariance.

1) Within-Voxel Covariance: We divide a point cloud into
rectangular voxels (e.g., 6 × 2 voxels in our case) with 50%
overlap, and an example is shown in Figure 3 (c). In each
voxel, within-voxel covariance matrix is computed to describe
the shape. For a voxel R1, let {f1,i }m

i=1 be the 6-dimensional
feature vectors inside R1. Within-voxel covariance matrix CW 1
is then defined as follows:

Fig. 3. Illustration of body self-occlusion and feature extraction region. (a) is
a sample RGB image, (b) is the corresponding point cloud, (c) is the within- m
voxel feature extraction region and (d) is the between-voxel feature extraction CW 1 = 1

(f1,i − µ1)(f1,i − µ1)
T , (2)

region. m − 1
i=1

where µ1 is the mean of the feature vectors of R1.
A preliminary version of this work appeared in [76]. In this 2) Between-Voxel Covariance: While within-voxel covari-

work, apart from providing more in-depth discussion on the ance describes shape in a voxel, the differences of shapes
proposed Eigen-depth feature and the depth-based person between voxels also contain discriminative information. Sim-
re-identification framework, a kernelized implicit feature trans- ilar to standard covariance, we define a novel between-voxel
fer scheme is proposed to learn the relation between depth covariance to represent the relation between different voxels.
features and RGB features so as to estimate depth features As shown in Figure 3 (d), the point cloud is divided
in RGB images when depth sensor is not ready. In addition, into 6 × 2 voxels without overlap. Between-voxel covariance
more extensive experiments have been conducted. matrices are computed for each pair of 8-adjacent voxels. For

two adjacent voxels R1 and R2, let {f1,i}m
i=1 and {f2, j }n

j=1 be
III. DEPTH VOXEL COVARIANCE AND the 6-dimensional feature vectors inside R1 and R2, respec-

EIGEN-DEPTH FEATURE tively. We define the between-voxel covariance matrix CB1,2
This section will present the extraction of depth as follows:

voxel covariance descriptor and locally rotation invariant m n

Eigen-depth feature. Our descriptors are extracted from point CB1,2 = 1
(f1,i − f2, j )(f1,i − f2, j )

T . (3)
mn

cloud, a set of points on object surface expressed by 3D i=1 j=1
coordinate (x, y, z) in real world converted from depth image.
We first tabulate the notations defined in this section in Table I. For a depth image, the unification of the within-voxel and

between-voxel covariance matrices of all voxels is called the
A. Basic Feature Extraction depth voxel covariance descriptor (DVCov).

We first extract basic features of point cloud. We assume
another kind of biometric cue, skeleton joints of pedestrian C. Local Rotation Invariance of Eigenvalues

body, is also available along with depth images (e.g., when Assume p, q are voxels of a person in depth camera K .
using Kinect). We intend to extract features on the body parts Let {f K

p,i }N
i=1 denote the feature vectors, CK

W p denote the
whose surfaces are more invariant and reliable. As shown in within-voxel covariance matrix of voxel p and CK

Bp,q denote
Figure 3 (a) and (b), due to pose difference, sometimes a part between-voxel covariance matrix between voxels p and q .
of limb surface is not observed under self-occlusion, so the We assume only viewpoint rotation and location change take
surface shapes of arms and legs contain more noises rather place between two different camera views A and B and the
than valuable information. Therefore, we divide each point rotation is local so that the body part within voxels p and q
cloud of the whole body by two shoulder joints and two hip will not become invisible due to self-occlusions. To express
joints and only the points of head and torso are used for feature the transformation from camera view A to camera view B ,
extraction, while the four limbs are not. let RAB1 denote the rotation transformation matrix of point

For each point in the point cloud, a normal vector [77] coordinate (x, y, z), RAB2 denote the rotation transforma-
is computed as basic feature. The direction of normal vector tion matrix of unit normal vector (nx , ny, nz), and fAB =
describes the shape of a small neighbour region of that point. [xs, ys , zs , 0, 0, 0]T denote the shift of pedestrian location.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2592 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

Then the transformations of feature vectors from camera view
A to camera view B are

f B
1,i = RAB (f A

1,i + fAB), (4)
f B
2,i = RAB (f A

 2,i + fAB), (5)


R
where R AB1 O

AB = .
O RAB2

By substituting equations (5), (5) into (2), (3), we have

CB A T
W 1 = RABCW 1RAB , CB

B1,2 = RABCA
B1,2RT

AB . (6)

Since RAB1 and RAB2 satisfy R T
AB1RAB1 = I and

R T
AB2RAB2 = I, we have RAB RT

AB = I, so that RAB is
orthogonal transformation. Hence, the eigenvalues of within-
voxel covariance matrices CB Fig. 4. Visualization of the logarithms of eigenvalues of a fixed voxel and

W 1 and CA
W 1 are the same, and

comparison of distance of positive pair (i.e., samples from the same class) and
the eigenvalues of between-voxel covariance matrices CB

B1,2 average distance of negative pair (i.e., samples from different classes). The
and CA first row shows RGB and depth images of the same person. The second row

B1,2 are the same as well. That means the eigenvalues
shows within-voxel Eigen-depth feature of the fixed voxel indicated by red

of within-voxel covariance and between-voxel covariance are bounding boxes. The third row shows the comparison between the distance
invariant to rotation and location change. of positive pair and the distance of negative pair.

D. Eigen-Depth Feature and Analysis
In this section, we provide more in-depth analysis about where λk(C1, CN

2 )k=1,...,6 are the generalized eigenvalues of
the role of those eigenvalues. Let C C

1, C2 ∈ Sym+(6, R) 1 and CN
2 , computed by λkC1zk−CN

2 zk = 0, i.e., eigenvalues
denote two covariance matrices. The eigen-decomposition of C−1 N

1 C2 .
of C1 and C2 are C1 = U1diag(λ1,1,λ1,2, . . . ,λ1,6)UT

1 C−1 N T

and C 1 C2 = (U −1
1diag(λ1,i )UT

1 ) (U1diag(λ2,i )U1 )
2 = U2diag(λ2,1,λ2,2, . . . ,λ2,6)UT

2 , respectively. Here
λ1,1 ≥ λ1,2 ≥ . . . ≥ λ1,6 are eigenvalues of C1, λ2,1 ≥ = λ

U1diag 2,i
( )UT
λ 1 . (9)

λ 1,i
2,2 . . . ≥ λ2,6 are eigenvalues of C2, and U1 and U2 are

orthogonal matrices whose columns are the corresponding Hence, the i th generalized eigenvalue of C1 and CN
2 is

eigenvectors.
We note that rotation of point clouds and normal vectors 2,i

λi (C1, CN
2 ) = λ

. (10)
can be normalized by matching the principal axes of C λ1,i

2 and
C1 according to the descending order of eigenvalues. That By substituting Equation (10) into (7) and (8), we have
is, one can find an orthogonal transformation matrix Q such x N
that QU 2 − x12 = dist (C1, C2 ). (11)

2 = U1, where Q is the rotation transformation we
want to estimate. Hence, we construct a normalized covari- It can be seen that the geodesic distance on the Riemannian
ance matrix CN

2 = U T
1diag(λ2,1,λ2,2, . . . ,λ2,6)U1 , where manifold dist (C1, CN

2 ) is equivalent to the Euclidean distance
λ2,1,λ2,2, . . . ,λ2,6 are eigenvalues of C2 and U1 contains between feature vectors x1 and x2.
eigenvectors of C1. We call CN

2 the rotation normalized 1) Eigen-Depth Feature: The above theorem tells if there
covariance matrix from C2 to C1. exists only local rotation variation, the logarithm eigenvalue

Now we present how to use the above eigenvalues to vector can convert the distance between covariance matrices
construct feature vectors. Let x1 = [lnλ1,1 lnλ1,2 . . . lnλ1,6]T on Riemannian manifold to the Euclidean distance between
and x2 = [lnλ2,1 lnλ2,2 . . . lnλ2,6]T . Interestingly, we can two feature vectors. In our work, we define the Eigen-depth
have the following theorem. feature (ED) of a covariance matrix Cp as

Theorem 1: Computing the Euclidean distance between x1
and x xp = [lnλp,1 lnλp,2 . . . lnλp,6]T , (12)

2 is equivalent to computing the geodesic distance
between covariance matrix C1 and the rotation normalized where Cp is either a within-voxel covariance or a between-
covariance matrix CN

2 on the Riemannian manifold. voxel covariance. Using eigenvalues makes the feature more
Proof: The Euclidean distance between x

 1 and x2 is compact than using depth voxel covariance descriptor.
 
 6  To give a direct perception of Eigen-depth features, i.e.,

 λ
x the logarithms of eigenvalues, we show some sample images,

2 − x   6

12 = (ln i
λ )2 = 

2,i − lnλ1,i ln2 2,
. (7)

λ
i=1 i=1 1,i the Eigen-depth features and distances between positive and

negative pairs in Figure 4. For demonstration, we selected
The geodesic distance between C1 and CN

2 on Riemannian one sample as probe image from BIWI RGBD-ID dataset
manifold [79] can be calculated as follows:

 and 18 samples of the same person captured from different
6 views as gallery images. For a fixed voxel indicated in the red

dist (C 
1, CN

2 ) = ln2λk(C1, CN
2 ), (8) bounding box, we extracted its within-voxel Eigen-depth fea-

k=1 ture and obtained a 6-dimensional feature vector consisting of

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2593

feature (ED) for describing body shape. Besides using body
shape, incorporating more physical information would have
extra benefit on the identification of a person. As indicated
in the previous section, the four limbs are not suitable for
extracting invariant shape representation, but the lengths of
limbs contain physical information which is also a biometric

Fig. 5. The left illustrates the confusion caused by rotation invariance, and cue for distinguishing people. Hence, to obtain a complete
the right shows how voxels are divided. feature representation of pedestrian, we additionally employ

the skeleton-based feature (SKL) as complementary physical
the logarithms of eigenvalues for each sample. The logarithms information, and then build a depth-based re-identification
of eigenvalues are shown in the second row in Figure 4 by the framework by combining the proposed depth shape descriptors
histograms. We can find that the histograms of eigenvalues and the skeleton-based feature together.
look very similar over the rotation change. Since there are still The whole framework is illustrated in Figure 2. For the
extra variations but not just local rotation variation in practice, feature representation of skeleton, we apply the skeleton-based
we further make comparison between the distance of positive feature in [2]. This skeleton-based feature is a feature vector
pair (i.e., samples from the same class) and the distance of that contains 13 distance values and ratios computed from the
negative pair (i.e., samples from different classes) on the third positions of skeleton joints provided by a skeleton tracker.
row of Figure 4. We first computed the Euclidean distance The elements of the feature vector includes: (a) head height,
between the probe image and each gallery image given above (b) neck height, (c) neck to left shoulder distance, (d) neck
as the distance of positive pair (plotted as blue curve), and to right shoulder distance, (e) torso to right shoulder distance,
computed the average distance between each gallery image and (f) right arm length, (g) left arm length, (h) right upper leg
all samples from other classes in this dataset as the distance length, (i) left upper leg length, (j) torso length, (k) right hip
of negative pair (plotted as red dashed curve). We can observe to left hip distance, (l) ratio between torso length and right
that the distance between samples of the same class across upper leg length (i.e., j/h) and (m) ratio between torso length
multiple view angles is less sensitive to rotation in practice. and left upper leg length (i.e., j/i) (the unit of distances is cm).
Moreover, the distance of positive pair is smaller than the After extracting skeleton-based feature, in the stage of fea-
average distance of negative pair. So the Eigen-depth feature ture fusion, we combine our proposed depth shape descriptors
is a useful shape descriptor for recognition. and the skeleton-based feature together to form complete

Remark: In existing literatures about covariance descriptor representation of human body. In this work, we offer two
such as [17], geodesic distance on Riemannian manifold is fusion models below.
used for measuring the similarities between covariance matri- • DVCov+SKL: When the viewpoint variation of a person
ces. However, directly using geodesic distance is not invari- across camera views is not large in some special cases
ant to rotation. Given two rotation transformation matrices (e.g., security check or walking in narrow passage), the
R1 and R2, the eigenvalues of C−1

1 C2 and R1C−1
1 RT

1 R2C2RT
2 influence of rotation can be secondary. In such cases,

are always different. Moreover, covariance matrix does not we select our depth voxel covariance descriptor as depth
lie on Euclidean space, so most common machine learning shape descriptor, as it contains richer information about
methods are not proper to be applied directly. texture and is more effective for describing the shape.

In practice, although Eigen-depth feature is proved to be We measure the similarity of two subjects by computing
locally invariant to rotation, some problems come along with the combined distance d = dDV Cov + dS K L, where
this property. As shown in Figure 5 on the left, given depth dDV Cov denotes the sum of geodesic distances between
images (in which grayscale denotes depth) of two different the corresponding within-voxel covariance matrices and
voxels of body surface, they can be transformed to each other between-voxel covariance matrices, and dS K L denotes the
by rotation. Obviously, their shapes are clearly different but Euclidean distance between skeleton-based features.
the Eigen-depth features of within-voxel covariance matrices • ED+SKL: When the viewpoint variation of a pedestrian
are the same, and such a situation could make confusion in across different camera views is large, we select Eigen-
the matching stage, which is also a problem for other rotation depth feature as depth shape descriptor since it is locally
invariant depth shape descriptors. This kind of confusion could rotation invariant. Let xW and xB denote the concatenated
take place if the voxel size is too small and the voxel contains Eigen-depth feature vectors of all within-voxel covariance
only a small region of body surface. To alleviate this problem, matrices and all between-voxel covariance matrices of
as illustrated in Figure 5 on the right, we divide the point a person. Let xS K L denote the skeleton-based feature.
cloud into 6 × 2 voxels to extract feature for more robust We fuse these three features by concatenating them to
representation. So the voxels are large enough to contain a obtain a combined feature xC = [xT

W xT
B xT

S K L]T . Then
big area of body surface, making it less possible to cause we apply LDA [78] to xC for feature selection. We first
confusion after rotation. reduce feature dimension to 100 by principal component

analysis (PCA) and then extract c − 1 discriminant vec-
IV. DEPTH-BASED RE-IDENTIFICATION FRAMEWORK tors by LDA, where c is the number of classes. After
In the previous section, we have extracted depth voxel dimension reduction, the projected features are matched

covariance descriptors (DVCov), and constructed Eigen-depth by using Euclidean distance.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2594 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

TABLE II i th sample, and yi ∈ {1, 2, . . . , C} denotes the label (C is the
TERMS AND DEFINITIONS FOR SECTION V total number of classes/identities). Depth feature and visual

feature are heterogeneous features, and we assume that they
can be mapped onto a common latent subspace if they are
transformed onto high dimensional nonlinear space implicitly
by some kernel functions. Let us denote the nonlinear visual
feature as φv (fv ) ∈ Rmv and the nonlinear depth feature as
φd(fd) ∈ Rmd , where the dimensions mv and md are unknown.
Then we project the visual features and depth features onto a
common latent subspace by projection matrices W v×m

v ∈ Rm

and Wd ∈ Rmd×m , respectively, where m is the dimension of
the common latent subspace. In the common latent subspace,
we aim to make the projected visual feature WT

v φv (fv ) close to
the corresponding depth feature WT

d φd(fd ). For this purpose,
we minimize the distance between the means of RGB-based
visual features and the depth features of each person in the
common latent subspace by minimizing

 
1 C   2

 d
vd =  1 

WT 
C  v φv (fv

i ) − 1
WT φd (f

N d i ) .
N

c=1 c yi=c c yi= 
c 2

(13)

In addition, we wish that the above transformation between
depth and RGB features is learned in a discriminative way.

Fig. 6. Overview of kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme. Visual
features and depth features are mapped by projections to a common feature In order to make both visual features and depth features
subspace. discriminative in the common latent subspace, it is expected to

minimize the within-class variance and maximize the between-
V. DEPTH FEATURE TRANSFER class variance of both visual features and depth features at the

We have proposed a depth-based person re-identification same time. The between-class scatter matrices and within-class
framework in previous sections. However, in most existing scatter matrices are defined as follows:
surveillance systems, a large amount of cameras do not Ns

support capturing depth information, so only RGB images S b
b∗ = Ai, j (φ∗(f∗

i ) − φ∗(f∗
j ))(φ∗(f∗

i ) − φ∗(f∗
j ))

T , (14)
are available. In this section, we exploit a transfer technique i, j=1
to implicitly estimate depth features for RGB person images Ns

when depth device is not ready. We tabulate the notations Sw∗ = Aw
i, j (φ∗(f∗

i ) − φ∗(f∗
j ))(φ∗(f∗

i ) − φ∗(f∗
j ))

T , (15)
defined in this section in Table II. i, j=1

where ∗ ∈ {v, d}, v denotes visual feature and d denotes depth
A. Kernelized Implicit Feature Transfer Scheme feature, and

Depth features can describe body shape of a person, while ⎧
some visual features (e.g., HOG [13] and LBP [80]) extracted ⎪⎨ 1 − 1

if yi = y j = c,
from RGB images can also describe body shape coarsely to Ab Ns Nc

i, j = ⎪
some extent. Therefore, we aim to learn the relation between ⎩ 1 (16)

if yi = y j ,

depth features and these kinds of visual features, so as to ⎧ Ns

⎨ 1
estimate the depth features from RGB images when depth if yi = y j = c,

Aw
device is not ready. i, j = ⎩ Nc (17)

0 if yi = y j ,
For this purpose, we assume an auxiliary RGB-D dataset is

given. This RGB-D dataset is regarded as source domain, and and Nc is the number of samples of class c.
the RGB images from which we want to estimate depth fea- Then we combine the minimization of vd with the discrim-
tures are regarded as target domain. We propose a kernelized inant feature learning that maximizes between-class variance
implicit feature transfer scheme to transfer the depth feature while minimizes within-class variance as follows:
from source domain to target domain. The overview of the γ0tr(WT
feature transfer procedure is shown in Figure 6. max v SbvWv ) + γ1tr(WT

d SbdWd )
W

In details, suppose there exists an auxiliary RGB-D dataset v ,Wd β vd + , (18)
γ  T

0tr(Wv SwvWv ) + γ  T
1tr(Wd Swd Wd)

that consists of RGB-D images for each person. Let the where Sbv (Sbd ) and Swv (Swd ) are between-class scatter matrix
source domain samples be denoted by {(fv d s

i , fi , yi )}N
i=1, where and within-class scatter matrix of visual features (depth fea-

Ns is the total number of samples, fv
i denotes the visual tures) respectively, and β , γ0, γ 

0, γ1 and γ 
1 are non-negative

feature of the i th sample, fd
i denotes the depth feature of the trade-off parameters. We call the above transfer model the

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2595

kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme. It is unsupervised A = [AT
v , AT

d ]T , we can obtain Av by extracting the first Ns
without using information in target domain. rows of A. To specify the dimension of the common latent

subspace, we use the first m columns of Av to form the
B. Optimization projection matrix A

v ∈ RNs ×m so that we can project visual
feature to the m-dimensional common latent subspace.

We show that the model developed in the last section can
be converted to a generalized eigen-decomposition problem.
As suggested by the representer theorem [81], the projec- C. Depth Feature Estimation on Target Domain
tion matrices can be represented by the combination of After learning the projection to the discriminative common
training samples, i.e., Wv = vAv , Wd = dAd , where latent subspace, we can implicitly estimate the depth feature
v = [φv (fv

1 ),φv (fv
2 ), . . . ,φv (fv

N )] ∈ Rmv×Ns and d = of an RGB image in target domain by mapping visual feature
s

[φd(fd
1 ),φd (fd

2 ), . . . ,φd (fd
N )] ∈ Rmd×Ns are visual feature to high-dimensional nonlinear space by φv (·) and projecting it

s
matrix and depth feature matrix of training samples respec- to the learned common latent subspace by Wv . Given two new
tively and Av ∈ RNs ×m and Ad ∈ RNs ×m are the combination samples p1 and p2 in target domain, let fv

p1, fv
p2 denote the

coefficient matrices. For visual feature fv and depth feature fd , visual features of RGB images. The estimated depth features
we define in the learned discriminative common latent subspace are

computed by fd 
fv = [Kv (fv

1 , fv ), Kv (fv
2 , fv ), . . . , K p1 = ATfv

p1 and fd
p2 = AT

v v fv
p2. Then the

v (fv
N , fv )]T , (19)

s distance of depth features between p1 and p2 is computed
fd = [Kd(fd

1 , fd), Kd (fd
2 , fd ), . . . , Kd (fd

N , fd )]T , (20) by
s

where Kv (·, ·) and Kd(·, ·) are kernel functions for visual fea- distD(p1, p2) = ||fd
p1 −fd

p2||2. (25)
ture and depth feature, respectively. The projection of a visual
feature fv is expressed as WT

v φv (fv ) = AT
v T

v φv (fv ) = AT
v fv . VI. EXPERIMENTS

In the same way, WT
d φd(fd) = AT 

d fd . To jointly solve Av and Our depth-based person re-identification framework was
Ad , we define A = [AT

v , AT
d ]T , zero-padding transformation evaluated on three RGB-D person re-identification datasets

matrix Zv = [INs , ONs×Ns ] for fv and Zd = [ONs×Ns , INs ] PAVIS [1], BIWI RGBD-ID [2] and IAS-Lab RGBD-ID [3],
for fd . Now the objective function (18) can be reformulated which were captured by Kinect. In Section VI-E, the ker-
as: nelized implicit feature transfer scheme was evaluated on

γ0tr(AT ZT
max v SbvZvA) + γ1tr(AT ZT

d Sbd Zd A) 3DPeS [21] and CAVIAR4REID [20]. The experiment results
A β vd + γ 

0tr(AT ZT
v SwvZvA) + γ 

1tr(AT ZT , were presented in Cumulative Matching Characteristic (CMC)
d Swd Zd A)

(21) curve [82] and rank-k accuracy. Rank-k accuracy is the
cumulative recognition rate of correct matches at rank k. The

where Sbv , Swv , Sbd , Swd are scatter matrices defined by Sb∗ = CMC curve represents the cumulative recognition rates at
Ns
i, j=1 Ab ∗

i, j (f

i − f∗ ∗

j )(f

i − f∗ T

j ) , and Sw∗ = Ns
i, j=1 Aw

i, j (f
∗
i − all ranks. The evaluation was repeated 10 times and average

f∗ ∗
j )(f

∗
i − f j )

T , ∗ ∈ {v, d}. results were reported.

  Compared Methods: By following the general re-id setting,
 2 we tested Eigen-depth feature (ED), our depth voxel covari-

 1 C 
vd =  

 1
C

c=  AT 1
ZT

v fv
i − AT ZT

N d fd
i  ance descriptor (DVCov), skeleton-based feature (SKL) and

1 c yi= N
c c yi= 

c 2 the combinations of depth shape descriptors and skeleton-
= tr(AT B based feature (ED+SKL and DVCov+SKL). We conducted

vdA), (22)
 comparisons with RGB-based appearance features includ-

where B C
vd = 1

c=1 UcUT
c , Uc = 1 

Nc yi=c(Z
Tv T

C v fi − Zd fd
i ). ing LOMO feature [12], ELF18 feature [50], color his-

Let Bbv = ZT
v SbvZv , Bwv = ZT

v SwvZv , Bbd = ZT
d Sbd Zd , tograms (RGB, HS and YCbCr space) [11], HOG [13] and

Bwd = ZT
d Swd Zd denote the zero-padding scatter matrices. LBP [80], rotation invariant depth shape descriptors includ-

Finally, the objective function is formulated by: ing RIFT2M [5] and Fehr’s covariance descriptor [6], and
skeleton-based feature designed for depth-based re-id [2]. All

max tr(AT B1A)
A RGB-based appearance features were extracted from images

s which were resized to 128×48. RIFT2M and Fehr’s descriptor
.t . AT B2A = I, (23)

were densely extracted using the same voxels as Eigen-depth
where B1 = γ0Bbv + γ1Bbd , B2 = β Bvd + γ 

0Bwv + γ 
1Bwd . feature. We used LDA to learn the distance metric for all fea-

Hence, a generalized eigen-decomposition problem can be tures, except that the skeleton-based feature was matched by
derived below: Euclidean distance and our depth voxel covariance descriptor

was matched by geodesic distance using Equation (8).
B1A = λB2A. (24)

Solving the above is to compute the eigen-decomposition A. Evaluation on PAVIS
B−1

2 B1 = AAT , in which  is a diagonal matrix with We used two groups of dataset images in PAVIS dataset [1]
sorted eigenvalues in descending order lying on the diag- for evaluation here. These two groups are denoted by
onal and A ∈ R2Ns ×2Ns contains the eigenvectors. Since “Walking1” and “Walking2”. Images of “Walking1” and

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2596 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

TABLE III
PAVIS DATASET: RANK-1 AND RANK-5 ACCURACIES (%), INCLUDING

RESULTS OF OUR PROPOSED METHODS AND COMPARISONS WITH
RGB-BASED APPEARANCE FEATURES AND

DEPTH-BASED FEATURES

Fig. 7. Examples of images in “Walking1” and “Walking2” in PAVIS. Most
persons in “Walking2” dressed different clothes from “Walking1”.

in “Walking1” and “Walking2”, our depth voxel covariance
descriptor is more effective than Eigen-depth feature, because

Fig. 8. Performance on PAVIS (multi-shot). Our approach: ED (Eigen- it contains richer information about textures than using only
depth feature), ED+SKL, DVCov (our depth voxel covariance descriptor), eigenvalues. However, Eigen-depth feature is still more effec-
DVCov+SKL. tive than other methods except for our depth voxel covariance

descriptor. Using skeleton-based feature alone cannot achieve
“Walking2” were obtained by recording the same 79 people high performance, but it is complementary information for our
with a frontal view, walking slowly in an indoor scenario. depth voxel covariance descriptor and Eigen-depth feature.
Among the 79 people, 60 people in “Walking2” dressed The combination of our depth voxel covariance descriptor
different clothes from “Walking1”. and skeleton-based feature achieves encouraging performance,

The characteristic of this experiment is that some people where the rank-1 accuracy is 67.64% for single-shot recog-
changed their clothes (by wearing one more red shirt) from nition and 71.74% for multi-shot recognition. It is clear
“Walking1” to “Walking2” as shown in Figure 7. However, one that the fusion outperformed RGB appearance-based methods
could still explore some appearance cues (e.g., trousers and and other tested depth-based methods. We note that not all
body shape) for matching persons across these two sets. Since RGB-based appearance features performed badly as we
the images of frontal bodies were captured from nearly the expected, because among the 79 people, 19 people did not
same view in these two sets, there was little rotation variation change clothes and the other 60 people’s trousers did not
of point clouds. In this case, we can apply DVCov+SKL in change as well from the gallery set to the probe. In conclusion,
our framework. this test showed the effectiveness of our depth voxel covariance

We used images in “Walking1” to form the gallery set and descriptor for shape description.
the images in “Walking2” to form the probe. By following
the usual train-test policy for person re-identification, we B. Evaluation on BIWI RGBD-ID
randomly sampled half of the group “Walking1”, i.e., images The BIWI RGBD-ID dataset [2] contains three groups of
of 40 persons for training, and the remaining 39 persons sequences “Training”, “Still” and “Walking” captured from
were used for testing. Images of these 39 testing persons 50 different people. For a sequence of each person, there
in “Walking1” were randomly selected as gallery and all are about 300 frames of depth images and skeletons. Before
images of these 39 persons in “Walking2” were used as probe. feature extraction, we converted depth images to point clouds.
In single-shot experiments, one image of each person was In “Training”, people performed motions, such as walking
randomly selected as gallery. In multi-shot experiments, five and rotating. Only 28 people presented in “Training” were
images of a person were selected as gallery, and in such a recorded in “Still” and “Walking”, which were collected
case the distance between each probe image and each gallery in a different day and in a different scene, so that most
class was the minimum distance between each probe image persons were dressed differently. In “Still”, people slightly
and each gallery image of that class. The performance of the moved, while in “Walking”, every person walked in different
tested methods was reported in Figure 8, Figure 9 (a) and view angles. Examples of images in “Training”, “Still” and
Table III. “Walking” are shown in Figure 10. Since pedestrians’ view-

The results suggest that both Eigen-depth feature (ED) point variation was large here, it was more suitable to use
and our depth voxel covariance descriptor (DVCov) are more ED+SKL in our framework.
effective than RIFT2M and Fehr’s descriptor for describing For BIWI RGBD-ID dataset, images of the 22 people who
body shape. Since view angles of persons are nearly the same only appeared in “Training” were used for training, and images

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2597

Fig. 9. Performance on PAVIS and BIWI RGBD-ID (single-shot). Our approach: ED (Eigen-depth feature), ED+SKL, DVCov (our depth voxel covariance
descriptor), DVCov+SKL. (a) PAVIS. (b) BIWI RGBD-ID “Still”. (c) BIWI RGBD-ID “Walking”.

Fig. 10. Examples of images in BIWI RGBD-ID. In “Still”, the persons were Fig. 11. Examples of images in IAS-Lab RGBD-ID. All samples were
captured from frontal view, while in “Training” and “Walking” the persons captured from multiple views. Compared to “Training”, samples in “TestingA”
were captured from multiple views. changed clothes and some samples in “TestingB” were captured in dark

environment.

TABLE IV RGBD-ID, people appeared in different view angles, so the
BIWI RGBD-ID DATASET “STILL” AND “WALKING”: RANK-1 AND problem became more challenging than the one on PAVIS.
RANK-5 ACCURACIES (%), INCLUDING RESULTS OF OUR PROPOSED On “Walking”, the problem was even more difficult since

METHODS AND COMPARISONS WITH RGB-BASED APPEARANCE more frames were captured in multiple viewpoints. In these
FEATURES AND DEPTH-BASED FEATURES

situations, rotation invariant depth shape descriptor is more
suitable, so that our Eigen-depth feature outperformed our
depth voxel covariance descriptor. Compared with other rota-
tion invariant depth shape descriptors, Eigen-depth feature
outperformed RIFT2M and Fehr’s descriptor. The combination
of Eigen-depth feature and skeleton-based feature (ED+SKL)
can achieve better performance than using them separately,
which is the best on BIWI RGBD-ID. The results showed the
local rotation invariance and the effectiveness of body shape
description of Eigen-depth feature.

C. Evaluation on IAS-Lab RGBD-ID
There are 11 different people in IAS-Lab RGBD-ID

dataset [3]. In this dataset, three groups of sequences
“Training”, “TestingA” and “TestingB” were recorded, and

of the remaining 28 people were used for testing. In the testing each person rotated on himself and walked during the record-
set, we used images in “Training” as gallery and images in ing. There are about 500 frames of depth images and skeletons
“Still” and “Walking” as probe, so the same person wore for each person. The sequences in “Training” and “TestingA”
different clothes in gallery and probe. We selected the samples were acquired when the same person was wearing different
for evaluation by face detection as advised in [2]. Since the clothes. The sequences in “TestingB” were collected in a
persons were captured from different view angles, this dataset different room, where each person dressed the same as in
is suitable to evaluate the effect of the local rotation invariance “Training”. Some sequences in “TestingB” were recorded
property of the proposed Eigen-depth feature. The average in dark environment. Examples of images in “Training”,
results of CMC curve and rank-k accuracy over 10 trials were “TestingA” and “TestingB” are shown in Figure 11.
reported in Figure 9 (b), (c) and Table IV. On this dataset, the evaluation also followed the settings on

As shown in Figure 9 (b), (c), RGB-based appearance fea- PAVIS. Half of “Training” sequences were randomly selected
tures completely failed, because most people changed clothes to form the training set and the rest were selected to form the
so that color feature was not reliable. Our depth-based methods gallery in the test. The samples in “TestingA” and “TestingB”
outperformed all RGB appearance-based methods. On BIWI corresponding to the gallery persons were selected to form

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2598 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

TABLE V TABLE VI
IAS-LAB RGBD-ID DATASET “TESTINGA” AND “TESTINGB”: PAVIS AND IAS-LAB RGBD-ID*: RESULTS OF COMPARISONS WITH
RANK-1 AND RANK-3 ACCURACY (%), INCLUDING RESULTS EXISTING DEPTH-BASED RE-ID FRAMEWORKS (%)

OF OUR PROPOSED METHODS AND COMPARISONS WITH
RGB-BASED APPEARANCE FEATURES

AND DEPTH-BASED FEATURES

person re-id; that is they require that the group of persons for
training is the same as the one of persons for testing, while
there is no overlap on persons between training and testing in
the usual re-id setting. To compare our method with the above
methods, we tested our Eigen-depth (ED) feature and the
combination of Eigen-depth feature and skeleton-based feature
(ED+SKL) on PAVIS and IAS-Lab RGBD-ID under the same
setting as the compared methods when they were reported
in [3], [4]. The experiment results were reported in Table VI.
As shown, our method ED and ED+SKL clearly outperformed
other existing depth-based frameworks, especially on PAVIS,

the probe set. By following the settings in [3], all images a much larger dataset with more persons involved.
were used in this experiment. On this dataset, mismatch would
be observed when performing the matching between a person E. Depth Feature Transfer Evaluation
image of rear view and his/her image of frontal view, so that

The effectiveness of the kernelized implicit feature transfer
it challenges body shape descriptors. The average rank-1 and

scheme was evaluated on RGB datasets 3DPeS [21] and
rank-3 accuracies over 10 trials of evaluation were reported

CAVIAR4REID [20]. Before showing the experiment results,
in Table V.

we first present implementation details of the feature transfer
On “TestingA”, the RGB-based appearance features nearly

scheme.
failed, and Eigen-depth feature and skeleton-based feature out-

1) Implementation Details: In this work, we selected
performed them. On “TestingB”, HOG and LBP can still adapt

the BIWI RGBD-ID dataset [2] as the auxiliary dataset.
to illumination change to some extent, while color histogram

In “Training” of BIWI RGBD-ID, there were 50 persons
completely failed. Since rotation of samples took place in

performing actions of rotation and walking. For each of the
this dataset, the proposed Eigen-depth feature outperformed

50 persons in “Training”, 8 RGB images from 8 different
our depth voxel covariance descriptor and is more suitable

views ranged from 0° to 360° were selected as auxiliary RGB
for shape description in such a situation. Eigen-depth feature

images. As for depth information, for each person, 8 point
also outperformed the compared rotation invariant depth shape

clouds from frontal view were selected for extracting depth
descriptors RIFT2M and Fehr’s descriptor. In most cases, com-

features corresponding to those 8 RGB images. Some samples
bining Eigen-depth feature with skeleton-based feature worked

of auxiliary RGB-D dataset are shown in Figure 6.
better than using them separately. Since viewpoint of pose

After constructing the RGB-D auxiliary dataset, we
changed from 0° to 360° for each person in the training and

extracted visual features and depth features to establish the
testing sets, shape description from front to back for the same

connection between two modalities by the kernelized implicit
person changes notably and thus would cause confusion for

feature transfer scheme. Since depth features describe body
matching. Skeleton-based feature is more effective in the cases

shape of pedestrians, the visual features for learning the
when there are only 5 persons in testing set, because there are

transformation should also be able to describe body shape to
fewer persons of similar somatotype. So skeleton-based feature

some extent. We used HOG [13] and LBP [80] for describing
is better than Eigen-depth feature in this case. In general, the

body silhouette and textures. All RGB images in auxiliary
combination of Eigen-depth feature and skeleton-based feature

dataset were resized to 128×48 for extracting HOG and LBP
is the most effective. The test showed the effectiveness of our

features using 8 × 8 cells. We also extracted the same visual
depth-based method when people change clothes and appear

features for samples in target domain. As for the point clouds,
in the extreme lighting condition.

Eigen-depth feature was extracted to describe body shape.
With the extracted visual features and depth features, we

D. Comparison to Depth-Based Re-Id Frameworks conducted the proposed kernelized implicit feature transfer
Existing well-known methods related to depth-based person scheme. We chose the guassian kernel functions for visual

re-identification include still-image-based recurrent attention feature and depth feature, which are Kv (x, y) = exp(−γv ||x−
model (3D RAM) [4], skeleton-based feature (SKL), Point y||2) and Kd(x, y) = exp(−γd ||x − y||2), respectively. Let
Cloud Matching (PCM) and the combination of PCM and distvm and distdm denote the means of the distances of
SKL (PCM+SKL) [3]. 3D RAM, PCM and PCM+SKL are visual features and depth features between any two samples
designed under a different setting from the usual one for in the auxiliary dataset, respectively. We set the bandwidth

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2599

parameters as γv = 1 and γ
dist2 d = 1 . As for the TABLE VII

vm dist2
dm

parameters setting of the objective function, we empirically 3DPES AND CAVIAR4REID: EVALUATION OF THE TRANSFERRED DEPTH

set the default parameters as β  = 10
tr(Bvd ) , γ1 = 10

tr(Bbd ) , γ 
1 = FEATURE WHEN COMBINED WITH RGB-BASED APPEARANCE

FEATURES USING DIFFERENT METRICS (%)
10

tr(Bwd ) , γ0 = 1
tr(Bbv )

, γ 
0 = 1

tr(Bwv )
which were normalized by

traces. That is to say, the terms related to depth features were
assigned much larger weights since we focused on learning
the relation between depth feature and visual feature in order
to take advantage of the discriminative information in depth
features. As for the dimension of the common latent subspace,
we set m = 700.

2) Score-Level Feature Fusion: We estimated depth fea-
tures on RGB images in order to augment the visual fea-
tures with complementary information in depth features. Let
distRG B(p1, p2) denote the distance between RGB-based
appearance features of RGB images between two samples p1
and p2, and distD(p1, p2) denote the distance between depth
features computed according to Equation (25). We fused these
two types of distances with a weight η as follow:

dist f usion(p1, p2)

= (1 − η)distRG B(p1, p2) + ηdistD(p1, p2). (26)

In our experiments, each type of distance was normalized by
its mean distance between any two samples in training set.

3) Experiment Settings: We evaluated how the transferred
Eigen-depth feature (TED) can help to improve the
performance when combined with LOMO [12] and
ELF18 [50], which were two recently proposed effective
RGB-based appearance features in person re-identification.
To compute the similarity of RGB-based appearance features,
we applied three favorable distance metric learning methods
LFDA [43], MLAPG [52] and KISSME [40]. So we
had the following different settings, ELF18(LFDA)+TED,
LOMO(LFDA)+TED, ELF18(MLAPG) +TED, LOMO
(MLAPG)+TED, ELF18(KISSME)+TED, LOMO
(KISSME)+TED. For these settings, the corresponding
default distance fusion weight η was set to 0.3, 0.2, 0.3, 0.15,
0.3, 0.2, respectively. It is reasonable that the distance fusion
weight η was set to different values when fusing different
RGB-based distance metrics with the depth one. Experiments
were conducted on 3DPeS and CAVIAR4REID. We followed
the experiment settings on PAVIS. For each person in testing
set, one image was randomly selected as gallery and the
remaining images were used for probing.

As for baseline methods, CCA [83] and sparse regression
[84] were compared. In details, we used CCA to maximize
the correlation between RGB feature and depth feature on
the auxiliary dataset. As for sparse regression, we made the Fig. 12. Top 5 matching gallery images on 3DPeS and CAVIAR4REID.
sparse representation shared between RGB and depth feature In each group of images, the probe image is on the left. The first and

second rows are the matching results of LOMO and LOMO+TED when using
dictionaries so as to derive a transferred depth feature. The MLAPG metric. The bounding boxes show the correct matchings. (a) 3DPeS.
depth features transferred by CCA and sparse regression are (b) CAVIAR4REID.
denoted by D-CCA and D-SPA, respectively. We combined the
distance of the transferred depth feature with the distance of CAVIAR4REID. For all RGB-based appearance features and
RGB-based appearance feature for recognition. The average distance metrics in our experiments, TED is effective for
rank-1 to rank-5 accuracies over 10 trials were reported improving the top-rank matching accuracies. The augmenta-
in Table VII. tion of TED can boost rank-1 accuracy of ELF18 using LFDA

4) Results: The transferred Eigen-depth feature (TED) can metric by 4.4% on both 3DPeS and CAVIAR4REID. Although
achieve rank-1 accuracy 16.0% on 3DPeS and 27.8% on LOMO is a state-of-the-art feature for person re-identification,

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2600 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

Fig. 13. Effects of parameters β and η (shown by rank-1 accuracy). β is the weight of heterogeneous feature mapping term vd and
η is the fusion weight of appearance feature and transferred Eigen-depth feature (TED). Two different combinations of appearance features
and metrics ELF18(LFDA)+TED and LOMO(MLAPG)+TED on both 3DPeS and CAVIAR4REID are reported here. (a) ELF18(LFDA)+TED.
(b) LOMO(MLAPG)+TED. (c) ELF18(LFDA)+TED. (d) LOMO(MLAPG)+TED. (e) ELF18(LFDA)+TED. (f) LOMO(MLAPG)+TED.
(g) ELF18(LFDA)+TED. (h) LOMO(MLAPG)+TED.

the transferred depth feature makes consistent improvement TABLE VIII

especially at the rank-1 matching case. Compared to RUNTIME PERFORMANCE OF EXTRACTING DVCOV, EIGEN-DEPTH

the baseline methods, the proposed implicit feature trans- FEATURE AND TRANSFERRING DEPTH FEATURE

fer scheme clearly outperformed CCA (D-CCA) and sparse
regression (D-SPA) when applied for the same purpose.
The results indicate that it may not be effective to use CCA and
sparse regression to exploit transferred depth feature. Overall,
it is evident that the transferred Eigen-depth feature (TED) is
complementary to RGB color and texture features, so that it
can augment the RGB feature representation and help to get
better ranking results.

To analyze the results more specifically, we also compare
some matching samples of LOMO and LOMO+TED when
using MLAPG metric in Figure 12 to see in what situations
the transferred depth features would help to get more robust
matching. Among the four groups of images, the two groups
on the left show that depth feature can help to find the person
with similar body shape, when appearance color changes due
to illumination. The other two groups on the right show that,
when the appearance color and texture of two pedestrians are different parameter settings were reported in Figure 13. Due to
very similar, depth feature can help to distinguish the correct space limitation, we report the results of ELF18(LFDA)+TED
matching by body shape. and LOMO(MLAPG)+TED on 3DPeS and CAVIAR4REID,

while the effects of parameters are similar under other
5) Effects of Parameters: To further analyze the effects of settings.

key components in our kernelized implicit feature transfer We first analyse the effect of β . When β is around the
scheme, we also evaluated two significant parameters in our default value 10, the best performance is achieved. When the
model, the weight β  of the heterogeneous feature mapping feature mapping term is absent (i.e. β = 0) , the relation
term vd in Equation (18) and distance fusion weight η in between visual features and depth features is not explored.
Equation (26). Let β  = β

tr(Bvd ) . We varied β from 0 to 1000 In this case, we can observe that the improvement of TED
and η from 0 to 1 in order to see how the performance changed. is minor. The results indicate that the heterogeneous feature
When varying these two parameters, other parameters were mapping term vd is effective for transferring more effective
fixed and set to default values. The rank-1 accuracies under features by leveraging auxiliary depth information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2601

Then we analyze the effect of η. It can be observed for our proposed depth-based person re-identification model.
that, for ELF18(LFDA)+TED, the performance is improved Especially, when a large part of body is occluded, it is much
significantly within range from η = 0.2 to η = 0.5; harder to predict the 3D shape of a body. In such a case,
for LOMO(MLAPG)+TED, the best parameter value is the occlusion becomes a typically difficult problem, and more
around 0.15. The RGB-based appearance features are more investigation is needed in the future. A possible way may
powerful in most common cases when people do not change be to consider the partial person re-identification problem as
their clothes and there is no severe illumination change, and discussed in [85] for the depth-based approach.
TED can help removing ambiguities of top-ranked matchings.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT
F. Runtime Performance Evaluation The authors would like to thank the reviewers’ constructive

We tested DVCov and Eigen-depth feature on BIWI comments, and the principal investigator of this work is Wei-
RGBD-ID and kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme Shi Zheng.
on CAVIAR4REID to compute the computational cost.
In Table VIII, the time cost for extracting DVCov, Eigen-depth
feature and transferring depth feature is reported. REFERENCES

[1] I. B. Barbosa, M. Cristani, A. Del Bue, L. Bazzani, and V. Murino,

VII. C “Re-identification with RGB-D sensors,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput.
ONCLUSION & DISCUSSION Vis. (ECCV) Workshop, 2012, pp. 433–442.

We have developed a depth-based person re-identification [2] M. Munaro, A. Fossati, A. Basso, E. Menegatti, and L. Van Gool, “One-

model and addressed the bottleneck problem in person re- shot person re-identification with a consumer depth camera,” in Person
Re-Identification. London, U.K.: Springer, 2014, pp. 161–181.

identification in the cases of clothing change and extreme illu- [3] M. Munaro, A. Basso, A. Fossati, L. Van Gool, and E. Menegatti, “3D
mination, which make most existing person re-identification reconstruction of freely moving persons for re-identification with a depth

models not workable. In our work, we have proposed two sensor,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), May 2014,
pp. 4512–4519.

depth shape descriptors: the depth voxel covariance descrip- [4] A. Haque, A. Alahi, and L. Fei-Fei, “Recurrent attention models for
tor (within-voxel covariance and between-voxel covariance) depth-based person identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis.

and locally rotation invariant Eigen-depth feature. The local Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 1229–1238.
[5] L. J. Skelly and S. Sclaroff, “Improved feature descriptors for 3D surface

rotation invariance property of Eigen-depth feature has been matching,” Proc. SPIE, vol. 6762, p. 67620A, Oct. 2007.
proven in theory. By combining skeleton-based feature which [6] D. Fehr, A. Cherian, R. Sivalingam, S. Nickolay, V. Morellas, and
provides complementary information to our proposed depth A. N. Papanikolopoulos, “Compact covariance descriptors in 3D point

clouds for object recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot.
shape descriptors, a complete depth-based modeling of a Autom. (ICRA), May 2012, pp. 1793–1798.
person is formed. Extensive experiments on three RGB-D [7] U. Park, A. K. Jain, I. Kitahara, K. Kogure, and N. Hagita, “ViSE:
re-identification datasets show that RGB appearance-based Visual search engine using multiple networked cameras,” in Proc. 18th

Int. Conf. Pattern Recognit. (ICPR), vol. 3. 2006, pp. 1204–1207.
methods suffer from clothing change and extreme illumination, [8] M. Farenzena, L. Bazzani, A. Perina, V. Murino, and M. Cristani,
while Eigen-depth feature does not and is able to describe “Person re-identification by symmetry-driven accumulation of local
shape and deal with rotation better than existing methods. features,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR),

Jun. 2010, pp. 2360–2367.
Since depth information is not always available, we have [9] C. Liu, S. Gong, C. C. Loy, and X. Lin, “Person re-identification:

further proposed a kernelized implicit feature transfer scheme What features are important?” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV)
to estimate the Eigen-depth features from RGB images. Workshop, 2012, pp. 391–401.

[10] I. Kviatkovsky, A. Adam, and E. Rivlin, “Color invariants for person
By augmenting RGB-based appearance feature with the reidentification,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 35, no. 7,
implicitly estimated depth feature, it is helpful for further pp. 1622–1634, Jul. 2013.
reducing visual ambiguities for top-ranked matchings and [11] D. Gray and H. Tao, “Viewpoint invariant pedestrian recognition

with an ensemble of localized features,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput.
boosting the top rank accuracy in person re-identification. Vis. (ECCV), 2008, pp. 262–275.

Finally, we summarize the advantages of our proposed [12] S. Liao, Y. Hu, X. Zhu, and S. Z. Li, “Person re-identification by local
method as follows. Firstly, our framework quantifies depth maximal occurrence representation and metric learning,” in Proc. IEEE

Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 2197–2206.
information, and this can achieve clearly better performance [13] O. Oreifej, R. Mehran, and M. Shah, “Human identity recognition in aer-
than applying RGB appearance information in the cases of ial images,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR),
clothing change and extreme illumination change; secondly, Jun. 2010, pp. 709–716.

compared to existing 3D shape descriptors, the proposed [14] B. Prosser, W.-S. Zheng, S. Gong, and T. Xiang, “Person re-identification
by support vector ranking,” in Proc. Brit. Mach. Vis. Conf. (BMVC),

depth-based features can better describe human body shape 2010, vol. 2. no. 5, p. 6.
in depth images due to the extraction of (logarithmic) Eigen- [15] W. R. Schwartz and L. S. Davis, “Learning discriminative appearance-

depth feature, which is locally rotation invariant; thirdly, the based models using partial least squares,” in Proc. 22nd Brazilian Symp.
Comput. Graph. Image Process., Oct. 2009, pp. 322–329.

proposed depth shape descriptor and the skeleton-based feature [16] S. Bąk, E. Corvee, F. Bremond, and M. Thonnat, “Person
are complementary to each other, and the combination of them re-identification using Haar-based and DCD-based signature,” in

can provide more discriminant information of human body and Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Adv. Video Signal Based Surveill. (AVSS),
Aug./Sep. 2010, pp. 1–8.

thus achieve better performance. [17] S. Bąk and F. Brémond, “Re-identification by covariance descriptors,”
For future development, the self-occlusion and mutual- in Person Re-Identification. London, U.K.: Springer, 2014, pp. 71–91.

occlusion problems remain largely unsolved in RGB-based [18] B. Ma, Y. Su, and F. Jurie, “Local descriptors encoded by Fisher vectors
for person re-identification,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV)

person re-identification, and they are indeed also challenging Workshop, 2012, pp. 413–422.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



2602 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 26, NO. 6, JUNE 2017

[19] X. Wang, G. Doretto, T. Sebastian, J. Rittscher, and P. Tu, “Shape [43] S. Pedagadi, J. Orwell, S. Velastin, and B. Boghossian, “Local
and appearance context modeling,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Fisher discriminant analysis for pedestrian re-identification,” in Proc.
Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2007, pp. 1–8. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2013,

[20] D. S. Cheng, M. Cristani, M. Stoppa, L. Bazzani, and V. Murino, pp. 3318–3325.
“Custom pictorial structures for re-identification,” in Proc. Brit. Mach. [44] Z. Li, S. Chang, F. Liang, T. S. Huang, L. Cao, and J. R. Smith,
Vis. Conf. (BMVC), 2011, vol. 1. no. 2, p. 6. “Learning locally-adaptive decision functions for person verification,”

[21] D. Baltieri, R. Vezzani, and R. Cucchiara, “3DPeS: 3D people dataset in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2013,
for surveillance and forensics,” in Proc. Joint ACM Workshop Human pp. 3610–3617.
Gesture Behavior Understand., 2011, pp. 59–64. [45] F. Xiong, M. Gou, O. Camps, and M. Sznaier, “Person re-identification

[22] R. Zhao, W. Ouyang, and X. Wang, “Person re-identification by salience using kernel-based metric learning methods,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Com-
matching,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2013, put. Vis. (ECCV), 2014, pp. 1–16.
pp. 2528–2535. [46] L. Ma, X. Yang, and D. Tao, “Person re-identification over camera

[23] Y.-C. Chen, W.-S. Zheng, and J. Lai, “Mirror representation for modeling networks using multi-task distance metric learning,” IEEE Trans. Image
view-specific transform in person re-identification,” in Proc. Int. Joint Process., vol. 23, no. 8, pp. 3656–3670, Aug. 2014.
Conf. Artif. Intell. (IJCAI), 2015, pp. 3402–3408. [47] G. Lisanti, I. Masi, A. D. Bagdanov, and A. Del Bimbo, “Per-

[24] Y. Yang, J. Yang, J. Yan, S. Liao, D. Yi, and S. Z. Li, “Salient son re-identification by iterative re-weighted sparse ranking,” IEEE
color names for person re-identification,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 37, no. 8, pp. 1629–1642,
Vis. (ECCV), 2014, pp. 536–551. Aug. 2015.

[25] L. An, M. Kafai, S. Yang, and B. Bhanu, “Person reidentification with [48] S. Paisitkriangkrai, C. Shen, and A. van den Hengel, “Learning to rank
reference descriptor,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 26, in person re-identification with metric ensembles,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
no. 4, pp. 776–787, Apr. 2016. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 1846–1855.

[26] Z. Wang et al., “Zero-shot person re-identification via cross-view consis- [49] D. Chen, Z. Yuan, G. Hua, N. Zheng, and J. Wang, “Similarity
tency,” IEEE Trans. Multimedia, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 260–272, Feb. 2016. learning on an explicit polynomial kernel feature map for person

[27] R. Zhao, W. Ouyang, and X. Wang, “Learning mid-level filters for re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog-
person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern nit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 1565–1573.
Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2014, pp. 144–151. [50] Y.-C. Chen, W.-S. Zheng, J.-H. Lai, and P. Yuen, “An asymmetric dis-

[28] W. Li, R. Zhao, T. Xiao, and X. Wang, “DeepReID: Deep fil- tance model for cross-view feature mapping in person re-identification,”
ter pairing neural network for person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., to be published, doi:
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2014, 10.1109/TCSVT.2016.2515309.
pp. 152–159. [51] Y.-C. Chen, X. Zhu, W.-S. Zheng, and J.-H. Lai, “Person re-identification

[29] E. Ahmed, M. Jones, and T. K. Marks, “An improved deep learning by camera correlation aware feature augmentation,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
architecture for person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Anal. Mach. Intell., to be published, doi: 10.1109/TPAMI.2017.2666805.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 3908–3916. [52] S. Liao and S. Z. Li, “Efficient PSD constrained asymmetric metric

[30] S. Wu, Y.-C. Chen, X. Li, A.-C. Wu, J.-J. You, and W.-S. Zheng, learning for person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput.
“An enhanced deep feature representation for person re-identification,” Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2015, pp. 3685–3693.
in Proc. IEEE Winter Conf. Appl. Comput. Vis. (WACV), Mar. 2016, [53] W.-S. Zheng, S. Gong, and T. Xiang, “Towards open-world person re-
pp. 1–8. identification by one-shot group-based verification,” IEEE Trans. Pattern

[31] T. Xiao, H. Li, W. Ouyang, and X. Wang, “Learning deep feature Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 591–606, Mar. 2016.
representations with domain guided dropout for person re-identification,” [54] L. An, S. Yang, and B. Bhanu, “Person re-identification by robust
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, canonical correlation analysis,” IEEE Signal Process. Lett., vol. 22,
pp. 1249–1258. no. 8, pp. 1103–1107, Aug. 2015.

[32] R. R. Varior, M. Haloi, and G. Wang, “Gated Siamese convolutional [55] J. You, A. Wu, X. Li, and W.-S. Zheng, “Top-push video-based person
neural network architecture for human re-identification,” in Proc. Eur. re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog-
Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV), Oct. 2016, pp. 791–808. nit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 1345–1353.

[33] X.-Y. Jing et al., “Super-resolution person re-identification with semi- [56] L. Zhang, T. Xiang, and S. Gong, “Learning a discriminative null space
coupled low-rank discriminant dictionary learning,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. for person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 695–704. Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 1239–1248.

[34] S. Karanam, Y. Li, and R. J. Radke, “Person re-identification with [57] J. García, N. Martinel, C. Micheloni, and A. Gardel, “Person re-
discriminatively trained viewpoint invariant dictionaries,” in Proc. IEEE identification ranking optimisation by discriminant context information
Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2015, pp. 4516–4524. analysis,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2015,

[35] L. An, X. Chen, S. Yang, and B. Bhanu, “Sparse representation match- pp. 1305–1313.
ing for person re-identification,” Inf. Sci., vols. 355–356, pp. 74–89, [58] H. Wang, S. Gong, X. Zhu, and T. Xiang, “Human-in-the-loop person
Aug. 2016. re-identification,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV), Oct. 2016,

[36] Z. Shi, T. M. Hospedales, and T. Xiang, “Transferring a seman- pp. 405–422.
tic representation for person re-identification and search,” in Proc. [59] Y. Shen, W. Lin, J. Yan, M. Xu, J. Wu, and J. Wang, “Person re-
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, identification with correspondence structure learning,” in Proc. IEEE
pp. 4184–4193. Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2015, pp. 3200–3208.

[37] C. Su, F. Yang, S. Zhang, Q. Tian, L. S. Davis, and W. Gao, [60] P. Peng et al., “Unsupervised cross-dataset transfer learning for per-
“Multi-task learning with low rank attribute embedding for person re- son re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
identification,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Dec. 2015, Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 1306–1315.
pp. 3739–3747. [61] E. Kodirov, T. Xiang, Z. Fu, and S. Gong, “Person re-identification

[38] C. Su, S. Zhang, J. Xing, W. Gao, and Q. Tian, “Deep attributes driven by unsupervised 1 graph learning,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput.
multi-camera person re-identification,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ECCV), Oct. 2016, pp. 178–195.
Vis. (ECCV), Oct. 2016, pp. 475–491. [62] M. Munaro, S. Ghidoni, D. T. Dizmen, and E. Menegatti, “A feature-

[39] K. Q. Weinberger, J. Blitzer, and L. K. Saul, “Distance metric learning based approach to people re-identification using skeleton keypoints,” in
for large margin nearest neighbor classification,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), May 2014, pp. 5644–5651.
Inf. Process. Syst., 2005, pp. 1473–1480. [63] J. Lorenzo-Navarro, M. Castrillón-Santana, and D. Hernández-Sosa, “An

[40] M. Köstinger, M. Hirzer, P. Wohlhart, P. M. Roth, and H. Bischof, “Large study on re-identification in RGB-D imagery,” in Proc. Int. Workshop
scale metric learning from equivalence constraints,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Ambient Assist. Living, 2012, pp. 200–207.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2012, pp. 2288–2295. [64] M. Castrillón-Santana, J. Lorenzo-Navarro, and D. Hernández-Sosa,

[41] W.-S. Zheng, S. Gong, and T. Xiang, “Reidentification by relative “People semantic description and re-identification from point cloud
distance comparison,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 35, geometry,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Pattern Recognit. (ICPR), Aug. 2014,
no. 3, pp. 653–668, Mar. 2013. pp. 4702–4707.

[42] A. Mignon and F. Jurie, “PCCA: A new approach for distance learning [65] D. Fehr, W. J. Beksi, D. Zermas, and N. Papanikolopoulos, “RGB-D
from sparse pairwise constraints,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. object classification using covariance descriptors,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2012, pp. 2666–2672. Conf. Robot. Autom. (ICRA), May 2014, pp. 5467–5472.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 



WU et al.: ROBUST DEPTH-BASED RE-ID 2603

[66] F. Pala, R. Satta, G. Fumera, and F. Roli, “Multimodal person rei- Ancong Wu received the bachelor’s degree in intel-
dentification using RGB-D cameras,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video ligence science and technology from Sun Yat-Sen
Technol., vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 788–799, Apr. 2016. University in 2015, where he is currently pursuing

[67] A. Møgelmose, A. Clapés, C. Bahnsen, T. B. Moeslund, and S. Escalera, the Ph.D. degree with the School of Electronics and
“Tri-modal person re-identification with RGB, depth and thermal fea- Information Technology. His research interests are
tures,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR) computer vision and machine learning, and person
Workshop, Jun. 2013, pp. 301–307. re-identification.

[68] A. Møgelmose, T. B. Moeslund, and K. Nasrollahi, “Multimodal person
re-identification using RGB-D sensors and a transient identification data-
base,” in Proc. Int. Workshop Biometrics Forensics (IWBF), Apr. 2013,
pp. 1–4.

[69] V. John, G. Englebienne, and B. Krose, “Person re-identification using
height-based gait in colour depth camera,” in Proc. 20th IEEE Int. Conf.
Image Process. (ICIP), Sep. 2013, pp. 3345–3349.

[70] R. Satta, F. Pala, G. Fumera, and F. Roli, “Real-time appearance-based
person re-identification over multiple KinectTM cameras,” in Proc.
VISAPP, 2013, pp. 407–410.

[71] D. Baltieri, R. Vezzani, and R. Cucchiara, “Learning articulated body
models for people re-identification,” in Proc. ACM Int. Conf. Multime-
dia, 2013, pp. 557–560.

[72] A. Albiol, A. Albiol, J. Oliver, and J. M. Mossi, “Who is who at different
cameras: People re-identification using depth cameras,” IET Comput.
Vis., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 378–387, Sep. 2012.

[73] J. Oliver, A. Albiol, and A. Albiol, “3D descriptor for people re- Wei-Shi Zheng received the Ph.D. degree in applied
identification,” in Proc. 21st Int. Conf. Pattern Recognit. (ICPR), mathematics from Sun Yat-sen University in 2008.
Nov. 2012, pp. 1395–1398. He is currently a Professor with Sun Yat-Sen Uni-

[74] B. Takac, A. Catala, M. Rauterberg, and W. Chen, “People identification versity. He has been a Post-Doctoral Researcher
for domestic non-overlapping RGB-D camera networks,” in Proc. Int. on the EU FP7 SAMURAI Project with the
Multi-Conf. Syst., Signals Devices (SSD), Feb. 2014, pp. 1–6. Queen Mary University of London. He has joined

[75] X. Xu, W. Li, and D. Xu, “Distance metric learning using privileged Microsoft Research Asia Young Faculty Visiting
information for face verification and person re-identification,” IEEE Program. His recent research interests include person
Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst., vol. 26, no. 12, pp. 3150–3162, re-identification, action/activity recognition, and
Dec. 2015. large-scale machine learning algorithms. He is a

[76] A. Wu, W.-S. Zheng, and J.-H. Lai, “Depth-based person re- recipient of the Excellent Young Scientists Fund of
identification,” in Proc. IAPR Asian Conf. Pattern Recognit. (ACPR), the National Natural Science Foundation of China, the Royal Society-Newton
Nov. 2015, pp. 026–030. Advanced Fellowship, and the Outstanding Reviewer Award in ECCV 2016.

[77] H. Hoppe, T. DeRose, T. Duchamp, J. McDonald, and W. Stuetzle,
“Surface reconstruction from unorganized points,” ACM SIGGRAPH
Comput. Graph., vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 71–78, 1992.

[78] A. R. Webb, Statistical Pattern Recognition. Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley,
2003.

[79] W. Förstner and B. Moonen, “A metric for covariance matrices,”
in Geodesy-The Challenge of the 3rd Millennium. Berlin, Germany:
Springer, 2003, pp. 299–309.

[80] Y. Zhang and S. Li, “Gabor-LBP based region covariance descriptor for
person re-identification,” in Proc. 6th Int. Conf. Image Graph. (ICIG),
Aug. 2011, pp. 368–371.

[81] B. Schölkopf, R. Herbrich, and A. J. Smola, “A generalized representer
theorem,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput. Learn. Theory, 2001, pp. 416–426.

[82] H. Moon and P. J. Phillips, “Computational and performance aspects Jian-Huang Lai received the Ph.D. degree in math-
of PCA-based face-recognition algorithms,” Perception, vol. 30, no. 3, ematics from Sun Yat-sen University in 1999. He
pp. 303–321, 2001. is currently a Professor of the School of Data

[83] D. Weenink, “Canonical correlation analysis,” in Proc. Inst. Phonetic and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University. He
Sci. Univ. Amsterdam, vol. 25. 2003, pp. 81–99. has authored over 100 scientific papers in interna-

[84] H. Lee, A. Battle, R. Raina, and A. Y. Ng, “Efficient sparse cod- tional journals and conferences, including the IEEE
ing algorithms,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2006, TPAMI, the IEEE TNN, the IEEE TIP, the IEEE
pp. 801–808. TSMC-B, PR, ICCV, CVPR, and ICDM. His current

[85] W. S. Zheng, X. Li, T. Xiang, S. Liao, J. Lai, and S. Gong, “Partial research interests are in the areas of digital image
person re-identification,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), processing, pattern recognition, multimedia commu-
Dec. 2015, pp. 4678–4686. nication, and wavelet and its applications.

Authorized licensed use limited to: Indian Institute of Technology Patna. Downloaded on February 05,2026 at 09:44:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.